The MNE software will compute cortically-constrained L2
minimum-norm current estimates and associated dynamic
statistical parametric maps from MEG and EEG data,
optionally constrained by fMRI. This software includes MEG
and EEG preprocessing tools, interactive and batch-mode
modules for the forward and inverse calculations, as well
as various data conditioning and data conversion utilities.

In addition to the compiled C code tools, MNE Software
includes a Matlab toolbox which facilitates access to the
fif (functional image file) format data files employed in
the MNE software and enables development of custom analysis
tools based on the intermediate results computed with the
MNE tools. In contrast to other Matlab tools which provide
access to fif files, the MNE toolbox is written without
resorting to compiled code and is thus composed entirely
of m-files.

MNE tools support analysis of data from all three major MEG
manufacturers. The Elekta-Neuromag Vectorview and
Neuromag-122 data can be directly accessed because the
Neuromag native file format is employed in the processing
stream. We have also written a conversion utility from the
CTF MEG system native format to fif. The 4D Magnes software
includes a conversion tool to fif. We have added a utility
to incorporate the signals from the compensation data
channels as well. The MNE tools are aware of the major noise
compensation methods employed for MEG data and apply the
necessary corrections in forward calculations and noise
estimation procedures as appropriate. Specifically, we
support the signal-space projection (SSP) and signal-space
separation (SSS) methods employed in Elekta-Neuromag systems
and software gradient compensation using reference sensors
for CTF and 4D Magnes data.

The MNE tools have been written in C and Matlab. Currently,
the software is available for both 32-bit and 64-bit LINUX
systems and for Mac OSX (Intel processors).
